README.md, before:

# MAE 435: Principles of Automatic Control

## General Information

* Duration: 17 weeks (Aug. 19 - Dec. 9)
* Schedule: Mon. & Wed., 3:00-4:15 p.m.
* Location: 1007 Engineering Building I, Centennial Campus.
* Office Hours: Mon. & Wed., 11:00-12:00, Room 3282 Engineering Building III, Centennial Campus.
* [Syllabus](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/pltajoibr86bn71zab0ji/MAE-435-Syllabus-Fall-2024.pdf?rlkey=s23ix5brw4lgqqallbpyvhq7f&dl=0)

## Instructors

Prof: Dr. Hao Su, Associate Professor (hsu4@ncsu.edu)

Teaching Assistants
* MS. Junxi Zhu, Senior PhD Student (jzhu35@ncsu.edu)
* Dr. Ivan Lopez-Sanchez, Postdoc (ilsanche@ncsu.edu)

## Course Schedule (tentative)

|    Section      |            Week           |                           Monday                          |                       Wednesday                     |            Optional   Text Read          |
|:---------------:|:-------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|
|     Modeling    |       1. Aug. 19, 21      |                      [Course   Overview](#lecture-1-course-overview)                    |     [Closed-loop Control](#lecture-2-closed-loop-control)   |              MCE:   1.1 – 1.5            |
|                 |       2. Aug. 26, 28      |                      Introduction to PID Control and Laplace Transform                    |           Laplace Transform and Transfer Function          |              SD:   2.2 – 2.3             |
|                 |        3. Sep. 2, 4       |                  No   Classes (Labor Day)                 |       Laplace   Transform pairs and Inverse Laplace Transform      |      MCE:   2.1, 2.2 & SD: 2.2 – 2.3     |
|                 |        4. Sep. 9, 11      |                Mechanical System Modeling               |       Electromechanical Systems Modelling      |       MCE:   3.1-3.2 & SD: 6.1-6.6-      |
|                 |       5. Sep. 16, 18      |         Project:   MATLAB             |       Control Block Diagram Signal Flow Graph     |         MCE:   2.3 & SD: 8.1 – 8.3       |
|     Analysis    |       6. Sep. 23, 25      |          Project: Simulink Introduction Part I        |       Project: Simulink Introduction Part II     |      SD:   8.1 – 8.3 & MCE: 5.1 – 5.8    |
|                 |     7. Sep. 30, Oct. 2    |                      Midterm   Review                     |               Time-Domain Analysis (1st order system)             |              MCE:   5.1 – 5.8            |
|                 |        8. Oct. 7, 9       |             Time-Domin Analysis (2nd order system)           |          Project: Robot Modeling        |              MCE:   5.1 – 5.8            |
|                 |       9. Oct. 14, 16      |                  Fall Break (no class)                |                        Midterm                      |        MCE:   7.1 & MCE: 7.2 – 7.6       |
|                 |       10. Oct. 21, 23     |                   Frequency Domain Analysis Part I | Frequency Domain Analysis Part II        |     MCE:   6.2 – 6.5 & MCE: 7.2 – 7.6    |
|                 |       11. Oct. 28, 30     |            Midterm Recap and Stability Analysis          |          Bode Diagram Concept        |              MCE:   7.7 -7. 8            |
|          |        12. Nov. 4, 6      |             Bode   Diagram: Gain and Phase Margin            |              Bode Diagram: Stability Criterion            |             MCE:   7.11 – 7.13           |
|                 |       13. Nov. 11, 13     |      Project:   Bode Diagram: Design and Control    |              Project: Robot System Simulation Implementation             |             MCE:   7.11 – 7.13           |
|                 |       14. Nov. 18, 20     |               Lead Compensation Control             |                  Lag Compensation Control                |                     -                    |
|                 |       15. Nov. 25, 27     |                Project:   Control of Robot              |            No   Classes (Thanksgiving Day)          |                     -                    |
|                 |         16. Dec. 2 , 4      |     Final exam Review    |                                                     |                     -                    |
|                 |         17. Dec. 9, 11       |                                               |                   Final Exam                                  |                     -                    |

## Lecture Slides

### Lecture 1: Course Overview
[PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/wovkvwgidfzk44qimz0ao/Lecture-1-Course-Overview.pdf?rlkey=vz7a1g5ahtoqflyi4bp28bjgz&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2lm4z8cqi8326sa9viuzh/Lecture-1-Course-Overview.pptx?rlkey=eso64qwr3v7xxh7irkywj2c5d&dl=0) (updated on 08/23/2024)

### Lecture 2: Closed-loop Control 

[PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/e6lf6tbjkw8wil00zp9uf/Lecture-2-Closed-loop-Control.pdf?rlkey=co5usxwb3n2kq612tipmajz7g&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/gv4boo1670bkrxeh0dsv8/Lecture-2-Closed-loop-Control.pptx?rlkey=wxzq9wntitswsqv5xzkfhq7x1&dl=0) (updated on 08/23/2024)

<br>

## Supplementary Materials

* Basics of complex number calculation: [PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/037xcopyqz5wamdi8zltd/Basics-of-Complex-Number-Calculation.pdf?rlkey=qz8m2nqi72z4pwwmged7r0amb&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/hv6tbskg0hr9efah07u5y/Basics-of-Complex-Number-Calculation.pptx?rlkey=cqq38owcuz39cay3jt6fucb3p&dl=0)

* Solving ordinary differential equations (ODEs) for homogeneous and particular solutions: [PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/vrsy3b4wiltn49tuefqfo/Solving-Ordinary-Differential-Equations.pdf?rlkey=ik432iug91n5lufja75enknx2&dl=0)

## Resources

### Books
* Katsuhiko Ogata, Modern Control Engineering (MCE), any recent edition (recommend the 5th version), Pearson Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ.
* K. Ogata, System Dynamics (SD), 4th ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2004.
### Papers

### Videos

## FAQ

Commit message:

Updated lecture 3 and spp materials

README.md, after:

# MAE 435: Principles of Automatic Control

## General Information

* Duration: 17 weeks (Aug. 19 - Dec. 9)
* Schedule: Mon. & Wed., 3:00-4:15 p.m.
* Location: 1007 Engineering Building I, Centennial Campus.
* Office Hours: Mon. & Wed., 11:00-12:00, Room 3282 Engineering Building III, Centennial Campus.
* [Syllabus](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/pltajoibr86bn71zab0ji/MAE-435-Syllabus-Fall-2024.pdf?rlkey=s23ix5brw4lgqqallbpyvhq7f&dl=0)

## Instructors

Prof: Dr. Hao Su, Associate Professor (hsu4@ncsu.edu)

Teaching Assistants
* MS. Junxi Zhu, Senior PhD Student (jzhu35@ncsu.edu)
* Dr. Ivan Lopez-Sanchez, Postdoc (ilsanche@ncsu.edu)

## Course Schedule (tentative)

|    Section      |            Week           |                           Monday                          |                       Wednesday                     |            Optional   Text Read          |
|:---------------:|:-------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|
|     Modeling    |       1. Aug. 19, 21      |                      [Course   Overview](#lecture-1-course-overview)                    |     [Closed-loop Control](#lecture-2-closed-loop-control)   |              MCE:   1.1 – 1.5            |
|                 |       2. Aug. 26, 28      |                      [Introduction to PID Control and Laplace Transform](#lecture-3-laplace-transform-and-pid-control)                    |           Laplace Transform and Transfer Function          |              SD:   2.2 – 2.3             |
|                 |        3. Sep. 2, 4       |                  No   Classes (Labor Day)                 |       Laplace   Transform pairs and Inverse Laplace Transform      |      MCE:   2.1, 2.2 & SD: 2.2 – 2.3     |
|                 |        4. Sep. 9, 11      |                Mechanical System Modeling               |       Electromechanical Systems Modelling      |       MCE:   3.1-3.2 & SD: 6.1-6.6-      |
|                 |       5. Sep. 16, 18      |         Project:   MATLAB             |       Control Block Diagram Signal Flow Graph     |         MCE:   2.3 & SD: 8.1 – 8.3       |
|     Analysis    |       6. Sep. 23, 25      |          Project: Simulink Introduction Part I        |       Project: Simulink Introduction Part II     |      SD:   8.1 – 8.3 & MCE: 5.1 – 5.8    |
|                 |     7. Sep. 30, Oct. 2    |                      Midterm   Review                     |               Time-Domain Analysis (1st order system)             |              MCE:   5.1 – 5.8            |
|                 |        8. Oct. 7, 9       |             Time-Domin Analysis (2nd order system)           |          Project: Robot Modeling        |              MCE:   5.1 – 5.8            |
|                 |       9. Oct. 14, 16      |                  Fall Break (no class)                |                        Midterm                      |        MCE:   7.1 & MCE: 7.2 – 7.6       |
|                 |       10. Oct. 21, 23     |                   Frequency Domain Analysis Part I | Frequency Domain Analysis Part II        |     MCE:   6.2 – 6.5 & MCE: 7.2 – 7.6    |
|                 |       11. Oct. 28, 30     |            Midterm Recap and Stability Analysis          |          Bode Diagram Concept        |              MCE:   7.7 -7. 8            |
|          |        12. Nov. 4, 6      |             Bode   Diagram: Gain and Phase Margin            |              Bode Diagram: Stability Criterion            |             MCE:   7.11 – 7.13           |
|                 |       13. Nov. 11, 13     |      Project:   Bode Diagram: Design and Control    |              Project: Robot System Simulation Implementation             |             MCE:   7.11 – 7.13           |
|                 |       14. Nov. 18, 20     |               Lead Compensation Control             |                  Lag Compensation Control                |                     -                    |
|                 |       15. Nov. 25, 27     |                Project:   Control of Robot              |            No   Classes (Thanksgiving Day)          |                     -                    |
|                 |         16. Dec. 2 , 4      |     Final exam Review    |                                                     |                     -                    |
|                 |         17. Dec. 9, 11       |                                               |                   Final Exam                                  |                     -                    |

## Lecture Slides

### Lecture 1: Course Overview
[PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/wovkvwgidfzk44qimz0ao/Lecture-1-Course-Overview.pdf?rlkey=vz7a1g5ahtoqflyi4bp28bjgz&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2lm4z8cqi8326sa9viuzh/Lecture-1-Course-Overview.pptx?rlkey=eso64qwr3v7xxh7irkywj2c5d&dl=0) (updated on 08/23/2024)

### Lecture 2: Closed-loop Control 

[PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/e6lf6tbjkw8wil00zp9uf/Lecture-2-Closed-loop-Control.pdf?rlkey=co5usxwb3n2kq612tipmajz7g&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/gv4boo1670bkrxeh0dsv8/Lecture-2-Closed-loop-Control.pptx?rlkey=wxzq9wntitswsqv5xzkfhq7x1&dl=0) (updated on 08/23/2024)

### Lecture 3: Laplace Transform and PID Control

[PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/kd1klqdel4jevlescwnqf/Lecture-3-Laplace-Transform-and-PID-Control.pdf?rlkey=34j2hf05t0g8qo7j740bibi16&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/9i5pwqnbtv4ctz98rx77n/Lecture-3-Laplace-Transform-and-PID-Control.pptx?rlkey=016r0hxkk0cms2kx4bqhnlnea&dl=0)

<br>

## Supplementary Materials

* Mathematics Foundations - Table of Calculus: [PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/kw7si6ec5uo1pjpg66kd8/Math-Foundations-Tables-of-calculus.pdf?rlkey=ekrjoc5pvcgcr2fot91zm3hnp&dl=0) | [PPT](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/76ehrk8rfkocxdcbsyqn2/Math-Foundations-Tables-of-calculus.pptx?rlkey=t5gqnn4iob37zdakzkjyykee3&dl=0)

## Resources

### Books
* Katsuhiko Ogata, Modern Control Engineering (MCE), any recent edition (recommend the 5th version), Pearson Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ.
* K. Ogata, System Dynamics (SD), 4th ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2004.
### Papers

### Videos

## FAQ
